# Logic & Trick Blog

This is my attempt at a super basic blog site without an SQL database attached.
Posts go in the `posts` folder and must contain a JSON structure for metadata,
followed by a blank line, then the actual post in Markdown.

Example post file (the first completely blank line MUST be between the metadata and the content):

    {
        /* The following 4 fields are mandatory */
        "date": "2015-01-01",
        "category": "Examples",
        "tags": [ "example", "post" ],
        "title": "Example post"
        /* Any additional metadata can be added here */
    }
    
    This is an example post. It's written in **Markdown**.

After changing anything inside the posts folder, execute `generate-post-data.py`
from the root directory to update the "database" stored in `php/BlogData.php`.

## Routes

The routing structure is very simple. Only two main routes are available:

- `/index` (or blank) - The index page
    - `/index/tag:{tag}` - Index page, filtering by tag
    - `/index/cat:{category}` - Index page, filtering by category
- `post/{id}` - The 'view post' page

## Project Structure

- `index.php`: Bootstrapping, routing, processing, and main page template
- `.htaccess`: Requires mod_rewrite to work
- `generate-post-data.py`: Python 2 script that generates the `BlogData.php` file
- `php`
    - `BlogData.php`: Cached post database. Generated by `generate-post-data.py`
    - `DataAccess.php`: Thin wrapper around the BlogData database
    - `Templates.php`: Some basic HTML templating functions
	- `Parsedown.php` and `ParsedownExtra.php`: MIT licensed Markdown parsing library.
	  See [here](https://github.com/erusev/parsedown) for more info
- `img`: Images
- `css`: Styles
    - `normalize.css`: MIT licensed CSS library.
	  See [here](https://necolas.github.io/normalize.css/) for more info
- `posts`: Posts go here. File names should be URL-safe and have extension `.md`

## License

- My blog posts inside the `posts` folder are
  [CC-BY-NC-ND](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/).
- Everything else is [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
